In the last video we created our own functional interface
for unary operator and binary operator
and then we used the supplied inter-unary operator
from the java.util.function package
to demonstrate that Java provides a whole set of
functional interfaces for your use.
In this video I wanna talk about a few more of them,
because once you understand them
your life will get easier
and also you may see some of these in example code
when you sit the exam.
So we need to create a new class
in the Lambda Expressions project
and call it SuppliedInterfaceTests.
(keyboard clicks)
(mouse clicks)
All right so this code has an example
of four of the interfaces in the Java.util.function package.
And we're using the generic interface of each
and passing a string type for each of them.
So the first example you've got a string array there
on line 21-5.
But the first example was a consumer example.
This method returns no result,
it just does something on the parameter passed.
Here we're setting up a code block in the Lambda Expression
that creates a string builder
that takes on the date, time,
and the project class information to a string.
Moving on down we've got a predicate example there.
That method returns a boolean and accepts one parameter
and we're using the predicate
in the ArrayList.removeIf method
to remove any string elements.
Lets start with an A
And we're using the dictionary string array
that we defined on line 21 for that one.
And you can see the sample code there
that's actually using that in action
to find any that start with an A.
Right moving on down the next one is the supplier example.
This method returns an object that accepts no parameter.
It was simply just returning a string
to show how that's being used.
And the fourth example is a function example,
the method returns a result and accepts one parameter.
So here we're setting up a code block
in the Lambda Expression
that uses the repeat method on a past string.
All right so that's the code
let's run this.
Okay we can see the output
at the bottom of the screen there.
So that gives you a good overall example
how to use four of the interfaces
in the java.util.function package.
All right now what I wanna do is put lists of
Lambda Expressions together
to manipulate sets of data.
So what you wanna do is create a new class in our project
and we're gonna call this one ForEachExamples.
(keyboard clicks)
So this class as we look at it
has a method to create a unique value for an array element
in the format A_test_1
and you can see that starting on line 17.
And moving on down we've got our main method.
And here we're gonna create an array
we're doing that on line 30 string array
and then the next,
if you look at the code on line 36,
what we're doing there,
we're using the array set all method to populate data
and the set all method uses a
method reference Lambda Expression there
to call the method we've created
the one with two colons.
Within making an array list out of the array on line 39
and then we're actually getting into
using the stream method on line 43.
Now streams aren't part of this exam,
they're part of the 1Z0-816 exam,
but I'm using one here to just demonstrate
using Lambda Expressions as we process the stream anyway.
But keep in mind you won't be tested on stream
in the 1Z0-815 exam.
All right so moving on down
I'm demonstrating some sorting there
by the suffix number descending
using a comparable interface
So sorting by the numeric suffix
of the value in the array descending
and then another example there sorting in reverse order
noting that in the example down there on line 62
I'm showing you that its basically equivalent to
comparator.reverseOrder
which is that commented-out code on line 61.
We're using the sort method there
with the Lambda Expression.
All right so let's run this.
And you can see we've got the output.
So I think we've covered Lambda Expressions
in the last five videos including this one.
Coming up next we'll see a couple of quiz questions
to test some of the things you've learnt,
and then we'll move onto the next section
where we start getting into exceptions.
See you in the next video.